TORTS DOCTRINE AND PRACTICE

Donald H. Beskind Doriane Lambelet Coleman
Fall 2014 - die

DUKE LAW

BESKIND & COLEMAN, TORTS: DOCTRINE AND PRACTICE |
About this Book
There are many torts textbooks on the market, including several excellent editions from which we have been privileged to leam and teach. Each serves its authors' particular pedagogical objectives as well as their sense of the needs of the students who will use it. This textbook was designed with three principal objectives in mind:
First, we want to offer a course that is appropriately rigorous—that best meets the highest intellectual and analytical capabilities of our own students and of students at similar institutions. Thus, the cases and materials we have included are designed primarily for extraction learning: they are framed so that their doctrinal context is clear, but as with law practice, the rule and other relevant information are generally derived from careful reading and analysis of a set of materials. Throughout, we have also sought to use cases whose factual contexts exemplify the complex circumstances that graduates are likely to encounter in sophisticated practice settings.
Second, we want the course to prepare students to litigate difficult torts issues in the most contemporary settings. To this end, our approach is primarily doctrinal, and where other approaches—normative, economic, philosophical, and theoretical—are included, students are encouraged to think about their utility and merits as they implicate and fit within the law's existing doctrinal structure. The doctrine is presented consistent with the reality that tort law has evolved from its judge-made "common law" roots to be a true hybrid of common law and legislatively-promulgated statutory rules.
Third, and also to this pragmatic end, the materials feature the relationship between the "black letter" or substantive law of torts, the rules of civil procedure, and the decisions and judgments required of practicing lawyers. Our goal is for students to see torts where they exist in the practice of law: at the juncture of the rules that govern the litigation process and the choices lawyers make using the facts and law to build arguments within those rules.
It was ultimately the search for materials that combined these three objectives—a combination we did not find in existing texts—that led us to develop this book together. Our commitment has always been to provide the strongest possible educational foundation for our students, grounded in our own experience as academics and practitioners. We look forward to working with you.
Donald Beskind and Doriane Coleman
Duke Law School
DUKE LAW


I BESKIND & COLEMAN, TORTS: DOCTRINE AND PRACTICE
Conventions